So are you still with me?
We did a lot of styling in this module but that's of course crucial,
mobile apps are a lot about making sure they look good and obviously they respond to changes in the
device orientation or they provide different stylings for different platforms
and all these things were covered.
Now it's time for another important thing, animations.
I want to have an animation here in the find place component, when we have places, we don't have any yet
but if we have places, I want to have a button which says something like start search and when we press
this button, I want to animate it to fly towards us and become transparent and then load in the places
we have. Right
now, we manage all the places in our redux state but later in this course when we actually store places
on a server and fetched them from there,
this animation makes more sense because it provides some interaction whilst we are loading the places.
So therefore, let me show you how to handle animations in react native
and as always, I can only recommend the docs of course where there is a guide on animations where you
can dive much deeper
but before you dive deeper, let's dive in together.
So we want to add an animation and first I need to work a little bit on find place so that it's in the
state that we can actually add an animation to it, in find place, I want to add a button in the middle
which is displayed instead of this list here
if we haven't loaded the data yet. For that, I will create a new variable here which I'll name content
and that content is either our button or the list depending on whether we get data or not. Let's say by
default we don't have the data,
so I'll start by implementing the button in this case, the search button which we can click to fetch
data. For that,
I'll need to import some touchable item, maybe touchable opacity and I want to construct my button with
that I'll want to build my custom button,
so touchable opacity should wrap a view here because we can style that view then
and that has nothing to do with animations, I just need a custom button here.
So let's quickly implement all that code for it and on that button here, I just want to say find places,
now this button of course needs certain styles then and for that I need a stylesheet,
so let's also import stylesheet here
and let's add some styles below our component
so const styles equals stylesheet create, there
I'll add a search button property which should hold the styles for my button,
this will be added to the view in my touchable opacity element and there I want to have a border or
color of let's say Orange to be in line with our other theme.
I want to have a border width of maybe 3 pixels to have a bit of a wider border, a border radius of maybe
50 and a padding of 20,
so this is the styling for my search button. In there,
I want to have a text so the search
button text will be a separate property to style the text separately,
I'll give it a color which should also be orange, I'll add a font weight of bold to have a fat text and
set the font size to 26 maybe.
Now these two styles can be assigned,
the view here receives
styles search button and the text receives styles search button text. That's a search button which
should be displayed if we have no data, to determine if we have data or not,
I'll add a state here
to this fine place component and I'll simply set some property in there, maybe places loaded
and initially this could be false.
Now correctly, you would say that we probably would handle these through redux
but here, we always have the places in redux,
I will adjust this later when we actually reach out to the web,
now it's all about the animation.
So we have this internal state places loaded,
now when we press the button, I want to play the animation
and once the animation is done, display the places.
So therefore I will add an onPress handler to touchable opacity and I want to execute a new method,
let's add it here which is places
search handler, don't expect an argument here.
I'll hook it up so onPress I execute places search handler and in there, it's now all about starting an
animation
and as I said, at the end of the animation, switching places loaded to false.
Now for this to have an effect, I need to work in my template though to actually render different things depending
on places loaded,
so what I'll do is I'll check if this state places loaded is true in which case I don't want to render
the button.
but I will then set content to my place list here, like that, place list should then be output. And now in the
view down here, the view we always return
which I should wrap with
parentheses,
I want to output this content.
So now we're outputting content and content is either our list or this button depending on whether we
loaded the data or not.
Now let's quickly see if this all works by going into places search handler and not playing an animation
but simply calling this set state and there, I just want to set the state such that places loaded is
set to true when we click the button. If we now save
all of that and we reload our application,
we can submit, we get this find places button here, needs a little more adjustment from a styling perspective
but if I click it, it disappears and we would see the list if we had any, I guess.
So this should work,
now the button needs more styling, to be precise the positioning here in the view has to differ depending
on whether we're outputting the button here or our list.
Now a way of doing that is to add a button container style here
and a list container style because both will be positioned differently and in the button container,
I'll set flex to one, justify the content in the center and align items in the center to center the button
in the middle of the page.
If we have a list, I actually don't want to set any of that so I can just remove that and I only need
to set the button container
if the data has not been loaded, so I'll set the style of my view here equal to a check where I see if
this state places loaded is true,
if it is then I'll attach no style because then I have the list which doesn't need a specific style
otherwise I'll attach styles button container.
With that if we save this and go back to the application and reload it
on both devices and I go here,
the button looks nicely centered.
Now let me actually add a place to see if that works and click find places and that looks as before.
So that's looking good to me,
now with that, the preparation is done, let's now add an animation.